---
layout: post
title: Streaming in 4K with Deep Learning's help
date: 2021-09-21 00:00:00 +0300
description: myPosts
img: liveNAS.pdf
tags: [deep learning] # add tag
---
Live streaming is all the rage, and nothing beats doing it in 4K! However, the available bandwidth on mobile devices 
can be a formidable obstacle for most streamers. To tackle this problem, researchers from the Korea Advanced Institute of Science 
and Technology infused the power of Deep Learning in a new client-server architecture called [liveNAS](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3387514.3405856). The idea, in a nutshell, 
is to let the users stream video with the quality permitted by their bandwidth and let a server (for example 
Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, etc) to scale the video frames using a neural network that continuously 
learns to map low to high-resolution images.

The main challenge here is to develop an algorithm capable of continuously learning and adapting in real-time. To address this challenge, LiveNAS takes advantage of the power of parallel computing 
and exploits a beautiful property of our world: most of what we experience is very redundant!  

Redundant? Yes! pixels of similar colors appear together in large areas within a frame and remain together in
subsequent frames; this is why [our eyes evolved to detect edges](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0042698997001211): 
the most informative parts of natural scenes. 

Due to this redundancy, sending only ten small patches to feed a deep neural network instead of the
complete frame is enough to let it learn how to scale low to high-resolution video frames. This idea significantly 
reduces the training time!

LiveNAS also relies on the availability of "Super-resolution processors" on the server side, that is, powerful GPUs that can process multiple frames simultaneously. The result is rapid automatic image scaling that gives the 
end-user (TikTok followers, for example) the impression of consuming 4K streaming videos even though their favorite influencer 
is streaming in a poor-quality format! 🎥